Question
---
You want to build n new buildings in a city. The new buildings will be built in a line and are labeled from 1 to n.

However, there are city restrictions on the heights of the new buildings:

The height of each building must be a non-negative integer.
The height of the first building must be 0.
The height difference between any two adjacent buildings cannot exceed 1.
Additionally, there are city restrictions on the maximum height of specific buildings. These restrictions are given as a 2D integer array restrictions where restrictions[i] = [idi, maxHeighti] indicates that building idi must have a height less than or equal to maxHeighti.

It is guaranteed that each building will appear at most once in restrictions, and building 1 will not be in restrictions.

Return the maximum possible height of the tallest building.

Example 1:
-
Input: n = 5, restrictions = [[2,1],[4,1]]
Output: 2
Explanation: The green area in the image indicates the maximum allowed height for each building.
We can build the buildings with heights [0,1,2,1,2], and the tallest building has a height of 2.

Example 2:
-
Input: n = 6, restrictions = []
Output: 5
Explanation: The green area in the image indicates the maximum allowed height for each building.
We can build the buildings with heights [0,1,2,3,4,5], and the tallest building has a height of 5.

Example 3:
-
Input: n = 10, restrictions = [[5,3],[2,5],[7,4],[10,3]]
Output: 5
Explanation: The green area in the image indicates the maximum allowed height for each building.
We can build the buildings with heights [0,1,2,3,3,4,4,5,4,3], and the tallest building has a height of 5.

Constraints:
-
2 <= n <= 109
0 <= restrictions.length <= min(n - 1, 105)
2 <= idi <= n
idi is unique.
0 <= maxHeighti <= 109

Answer
-
Add two special restrictions:

Building 1 must have height 0.
Building n can have height at most n - 1 because starting from building 1, the height can increase by at most 1 per step.
Then sort all restrictions by building index.

Next, perform two passes:

Left to right pass
For every restriction, Update its maximum allowed height based on the previous restriction.

If two restricted buildings are dist positions apart, then the second building cannot exceed:

previousHeight + dist

Right to left pass
Similarly, a restriction cannot exceed:

nextHeight + dist

After these two passes, all restrictions become feasible together.

Now consider two consecutive restrictions:

(x1, h1) and (x2, h2)

Let

dist = x2 - x1

The tallest peak between them occurs when it increases from the smaller side and decrease toward the other side.

The maximum peak is:

(h1 + h2 + dist) / 2

Using integer division:

max(h1, h2) + (dist - abs(h1 - h2)) / 2

Compute this value for every interval and keep the maximum answer.


```
class Solution {
public:
    int maxBuilding(int n, vector<vector<int>>& restrictions) {
        restrictions.push_back({1, 0});
        
        restrictions.push_back({n, n - 1});

        sort(restrictions.begin(), restrictions.end());

        int m = restrictions.size();

        for (int i = 1; i < m; i++) {
            int dist = restrictions[i][0] - restrictions[i - 1][0];

            restrictions[i][1] = min(
                restrictions[i][1],
                restrictions[i - 1][1] + dist
            );
        }

        for (int i = m - 2; i >= 0; i--) {
            int dist = restrictions[i + 1][0] - restrictions[i][0];

            restrictions[i][1] = min(
                restrictions[i][1],
                restrictions[i + 1][1] + dist
            );
        }

        long long ans = 0;

        for (int i = 1; i < m; i++) {
            long long x1 = restrictions[i - 1][0];
            long long h1 = restrictions[i - 1][1];

            long long x2 = restrictions[i][0];
            long long h2 = restrictions[i][1];

            long long dist = x2 - x1;

            long long peak =
                max(h1, h2) +
                (dist - llabs(h1 - h2)) / 2;

            ans = max(ans, peak);
        }

        return (int)ans;
    }
};
```
